CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to become a contributor and submit your own code

Pull requests are welcome.

## Contributor License Agreements

We'd love to accept your patches! Before we can take them, we
have to jump a couple of legal hurdles.

If you're not a Google employee or contractor, please fill out either the 
individual or corporate Contributor License Agreement (CLA).

  * If you are an individual writing original source code and you're sure you
    own the intellectual property, then you'll need to sign an [individual CLA]
    (https://developers.google.com/open-source/cla/individual).
  * If you work for a company that wants to allow you to contribute your work,
    then you'll need to sign a [corporate CLA]
    (https://developers.google.com/open-source/cla/corporate).

Follow either of the two links above to access the appropriate CLA and
instructions for how to sign and return it. Once we receive it, we'll be able to
accept your pull requests.

## Contributing a Patch

1. Submit an issue describing your proposed change to the repo in question.
1. The repo owner will respond to your issue promptly.
1. If your proposed change is accepted, and you haven't already done so, sign a
   Contributor License Agreement (see details above).
1. Fork the desired repo, develop and test your code changes.
1. Ensure that your code adheres to the existing style in the sample to which
   you are contributing. Refer to the
   [Google Cloud Platform Samples Style Guide]
   (https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/Template/wiki/style.html) for the
   recommended coding standards for this organization.
1. Ensure that your code has an appropriate set of unit tests which all pass.
1. Submit a pull request.

Commit message:

chore: update CONTRIBUTING.md and add pull request template (#3724)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to become a contributor and submit your own code

Pull requests are welcome.

## Contributor License Agreements

We'd love to accept your patches! Before we can take them, we
have to jump a couple of legal hurdles.

If you're not a Google employee or contractor, please fill out either the
individual or corporate Contributor License Agreement (CLA).

* If you are an individual writing original source code and you're sure you
  own the intellectual property, then you'll need to sign
  an [individual CLA](https://developers.google.com/open-source/cla/individual).
* If you work for a company that wants to allow you to contribute your work,
  then you'll need to sign a [corporate CLA](https://developers.google.com/open-source/cla/corporate).

Follow either of the two links above to access the appropriate CLA and
instructions for how to sign and return it. Once we receive it, we'll be able to
accept your pull requests.

## Code reviews

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review. We
use Github pull requests for this purpose.

Before submitting a pull request, please make sure to:

- Identify an existing [issue](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/google-cloud-eclipse/issues) to associate with
  your proposed change, or [file a new issue](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/google-cloud-eclipse/issues/new).
- Describe any implementation plans in the issue and wait for a review from the repository maintainers.

### Typical Contribution Cycle

1. Set your git user.email property to the address used for signing the CLA. E.g.
   ```
   git config --global user.email "janedoe@google.com"
   ```
   If you're a Googler or other corporate contributor,
   use your corporate email address here, not your personal address.
2. Fork the desired repo, develop and test your code changes.
3. Ensure that your code adheres to the existing style in the sample to which
   you are contributing. Refer to the
   [Google Cloud Platform Samples Style Guide](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/Template/wiki/style.html) for the
   recommended coding standards for this organization.
4. Ensure that your code has an appropriate set of unit tests which all pass.
5. Submit a pull request.
